Previously, we discussed
how SIEM tools are used to
help protect an organization's
critical assets and data.
In this video, we'll introduce
another important tool for
maintaining an
organization's security,
known as a playbook.
A playbook is a
manual that provides
details about any
operational action.
Playbooks also
clarify what tools
should be used in response
to a security incident.
In the security field,
playbooks are essential.
Urgency, efficiency, and
accuracy are necessary to
quickly identify and mitigate
a security threat to
reduce potential risk.
Playbooks ensure
that people follow
a consistent list of actions
in a prescribed way,
regardless of who is
working on the case.
Different types of
playbooks are used.
These include playbooks
for incident response,
security alerts,
teams-specific, and product-specific
purposes.
Here, we'll focus on a playbook
that's commonly used in
cybersecurity, called an
incident response playbook.
Incident response
is an organization's
quick attempt to
identify an attack,
contain the damage, and
correct the effects
of a security breach.
An incident response
playbook is a guide with
six phases used to
help mitigate and
manage security incidents
from beginning to end.
Let's discuss each phase.
The first phase is preparation.
Organizations must prepare to
mitigate the likelihood, risk,
and impact of
a security incident by
documenting procedures,
establishing staffing
plans, and educating users.
Preparation sets the foundation
for successful
incident response.
For example, organizations
can create incident
response plans and
procedures that
outline the roles and
responsibilities of each
security team member.
The second phase is
detection and analysis.
The objective of this phase
is to detect and analyze
events using defined
processes and technology.
Using appropriate tools and
strategies during
this phase helps
security analysts determine
whether a breach has
occurred and analyze
its possible magnitude.
The third phase is containment.
The goal of containment
is to prevent
further damage and reduce
the immediate impact of
a security incident.
During this phase, security
professionals take
actions to contain an
incident and minimize damage.
Containment is a high
priority for organizations
because it helps prevent
ongoing risks to critical
assets and data.
The fourth phase in
an incident response
playbook is eradication
and recovery.
This phase involves the complete
removal of an incident's
artifacts so that
an organization
can return to normal operations.
During this phase,
security professionals
eliminate artifacts of
the incident by removing
malicious code and
mitigating vulnerabilities.
Once they've exercised
due diligence,
they can begin to restore
the affected environment
to a secure state.
This is also known
as IT restoration.
The fifth phase is post-incident
activity.
This phase includes
documenting the incident,
informing organizational
leadership,
and applying lessons
learned to ensure that
an organization is better
prepared to handle
future incidents.
Depending on the severity
of the incident,
organizations can conduct a
full-scale incident analysis
to determine the root cause
of the incident and
implement various updates
or improvements to enhance
its overall security posture.
The sixth and final phase in
an incident response
playbook is coordination.
Coordination involves
reporting incidents
and sharing
information, throughout
the incident response
process, based
on the organization's
established standards.
Coordination is important
for many reasons.
It ensures that
organizations meet
compliance requirements and it
allows for coordinated
response and resolution.
There are many ways
security professionals may
be alerted to an incident.
You recently learned about
SIEM tools and how they
collect and analyze data.
They use this data to
detect threats and generate
alerts, which can inform
the security team of
a potential incident.
Then, when a security
analyst receives a SIEM alert,
they can use the
appropriate playbook
to guide the response process.
SIEM tools and playbooks
work together to provide
a structured and
efficient way of
responding to potential
security incidents.
Throughout the program,
you'll have opportunities
to continue to build
your understanding of
these important concepts.